# v1 − original dataset

* The original untouched files from Météo-France servers
* Downloaded with high-speed and redundant servers network
* Checked for completness and corruption
* Hosted on high-performance S3

### 📂 [Browse the datasets](/)

## Endpoints

From S3 client:<br>
`s3://mf-models-on-aws/{MODEL}/v1/{YYYY-MM-DD}/{HH}/{PACKAGE}/{TIMEPACK}.grib2`

Direct HTTP:<br>
`https://mf-models-on-aws.s3.amazonaws.com/{MODEL}/v1/{YYYY-MM-DD}/{HH}/{PACKAGE}/{TIMEPACK}.grib2`


| Variable | Content |
| -- | ---- |
| {MODEL}     | `arpege-world` [🔗 ](../../models/arpege-world)<br>`arpege-europe` [🔗 ](../../models/arpege-europe)<br>`arome-france` [🔗 ](../../models/arome-france)<br> `arome-france-hd` [🔗 ](../../models/arome-france-hd) |
| {YYYYMMDD}  | Year / month / day of the run <br>Ex: `20181231` |
| {HH}        | Hour of the run <br> `00`, `06`, `12` or `18` |
| {PACKAGE} | Name of MF parameter package <br>Ex: `SP1` <br>*Refer to individual model documentation*
| {TIMEPACK}  | Name of MF timestep package <br>Ex: `00H06H` <br>*Refer to individual model documentation*

## Grib encoding errors

Some original files from Meteo-France have strange or erroneous metadata. They may not open with all tools, they may require custom grib tables and they may report strange or erroneous variables names. As a result, the associated `.inv` files are also contaminated by those errors.

## Package files

Multiple parameters are merged in a same grib file. Each package has a special name:

* `HPx` for altitude data
* `IPx` for isobaric data
* `SPx` for surface or single level data

The packages are not the same across different models. The `SP1` package for `arome-france` does not contains the same data than the `SP1` package from `arpege-france`.

We do not provide the documentation for the content of `v1` packages, as this dataset is only provided for compatibility with already existing systems.

You can have a look to the `.inv` inventory files, but remember about the errors explained above.

 **Official documentation from Meteo-France (french only):**

**Arpege:**

* [Content of the packages](https://donneespubliques.meteofrance.fr/client/document/packages_arpege-octobre2015_194.pdf)
* [Explanations about the parameters ](https://donneespubliques.meteofrance.fr/client/document/description_parametres_modeles-arpege-arome-v2_184.pdf)

**Arome:**

* [Content of the packages](https://donneespubliques.meteofrance.fr/client/document/packages_arome-janvier2016_198.pdf)
* [Explanations about the parameters](https://donneespubliques.meteofrance.fr/client/document/description_parametres_modeles-arpege-arome-v2_185.pdf)


## Index files

We provide inventory files if you need to download only certain parts of the GRIBs.

To get the inventory files, replace `.grib2` extension with `.inv` in the url.

See [Partial download](../../tools/partial-download) for usage instructions.
